---
layout: post
title: Week 3 -- Version Contorl, Browser Extension
---

On Monday, we got an introduction to one of important aspect of open source - Version Control. It is crucial to each open sourcec project since it allows multiple contributors work on one project at the same time without conflicts and always allows them to go back to earlier versions. Several commands we often used but not necessarily understand the definition were introduced, such as repository, commit. Meanwhile, we understood the difference between local git commands and github commands in terms of version control.
<br><br>
This week's Wednesday class was super fun and creative - it's the presentation day! My favorite ones (besides our own) are the virtual dice and coin flip, and the study buddy. My first glance on the coin flip and dice rolling was wowed by the fancy animation. Furthermore when I checked their repository, I was even amazed at how can they did this only with css and js files, which is incredible. Also, I really like the reason for using this browser extension - to make decisions on online shopping. The other one, study buddy, attracts me by its practical function. It blocks many social networking websites to help you focus on your current project, which is an excellent browser extension that should be put on firefox add-ons. As a client and a student, I will definitely download and use it immediately. 
<br><br>
Moreover, through other groups' demonstration, I started to know about other key elements about open source, like license, credits, and how to contribute to an open-source project (all of these should be put in readMe.md). Before the presentations, I barely know things about license and now I'm sure for one thing is that the license is changeable for different use.
<br><br>
The most important thing about this week is that I'm really thankful to my group: Ryan and Selam. We did a good job in this project with great communication skills and collaboration. I enjoy the way we work together: everyone majors in one area with clear goal but will fix bugs together, respect and support others' ideas. For example, I realized our "reset" button was not working before our presentation and after I told my teammates, I quickly fixed it and pushed the updated version to github. At the meantime, Selam and Ryan were working on readMe.md to modify the credits and how to contribute parts. It makes me feel like we are on the same boat with the same goal. While some are rowing, others are controlling the direction. Each person has their own specialization but together we are marching toward the one terminal point.
