---
layout: post
title: Week 1 -- Intro to Open Source
---

While we appreciate the convenience brought by the Internet--connects people around the world, and accelerates the economics development and culture exchange--we cannot emphasize the important of Open Source too much. To a large extent, In other words, no one on the Internet is not benefits from Open Source resources. helps the development of the Internect. Resources that are open to and accept contributions and variations from the public, Open Source indicates a wider and broader channel for resource exchange, a more effective way of communication, and a more efficient reuse of resources. 

In contrast to Closed Source which is proprietary to its owner who has the absolute right and control, Open Source offers the development license for other users to view, use and revise the original source for good. Needless to say, Open Source expedite the efficiency of writing code, since people do not neet to start up entire project but can base on existing open source projects. This saves much time and energy. On the other side, By allowing others to view and modify the original code, the quality of the project will be boosted up.It promotes the collaboration between individuals on purpose. As a result, Open Source resources brings mutual benefits to both the authors and contributors. Github, as known as Facebook of Programmers, is an excenllent example. Its brilliant features provide users powerful tools such as branching and forking for project sharing and encourages collaborating on changes. Various APIs for web developers are another exemplar of Open Source. Instead building the entire library, web developers are able to use handy open-source APIs to concentrate more on other features on their websites.

Just like a coin has two sides, Open Source and Closed Source are as well. Limitless variations in Open Source represent countless possibilities, but it also means hundreds and thousands versions forked. An extreme number of versions will cause opposite effects on such Open Source projects. Android would be the best instance. At this moment, the pros of Closed Source are highlighted. To the owners of Closed Source projects, they keep all the rights on changes to maintain the stability of their projects. Therefore, their projects are protected very well, such as the algorithm of Google and Microsoft Office.

Nowadays the ubiquity of Open Source, not only applied in computer science, really helps our livese. Twenty days ago, I read a news about current outbreak of newe coronavirus in Wuhan, Hubei, China. Because it is a brandly new virus, while they did researches from day to night, Chinese Science Institution also published the RNA chain of the virus to the world. Many foreign researchers involved in and helped China together to figure out the medication. Thanks to the Open Source; it does promote collaboration and ties people together. This is also the reason that I choose this course: be helpful and be thankful.
