---
layout: post
title: Week 2 -- Browser Extension
---

After we got a shallow touch with the browser extension on Monday's class, I keep exploring on more interesting <a href='https://addons.mozilla.org/en-US/firefox/extensions/'> add-ons for Firefox</a>. One of trending extensions attacted me is  
<a href='https://addons.mozilla.org/en-US/firefox/addon/the-laser-cat/'>Laser Cat</a>: a cat will pop up on the web page and its eyesight will follow your cursor; when you press the mouse, there will be lasers from cat's eyes to your cursor with sounds companying. The convergent of two laser lines stresses my boring black **cursor** on my screen, and in mind. Therefore, I came up an idea of our little add-ons: how about change the shape of the default cursor? 
<br>
My team agreed on this idea and we started on Wednesday noon. First, I found icons we might need and finished the manifest.json for the extension, which provides me a deeper understanding of this file. Then I constructed the major construction of the popup window (choose_cursor.html, choose_cursor.css). Everything went very well until we stuck in the functioning part of our add-ons - the connection between 2 javascript files (choose_cursor.js for popup, cursify.js for content-scripts).
<br>
Before our 2nd meeting on Friday, I spent a day on figuring out how to enable the cursor to change default icon by clicking a tab. Besides adding css features to the popup, however, I did barely progress. On Friday, Ryan fixed our functioning part by partially hardcoding it, and I modified the hardcoded part into dynamic one. At the end, I and Selam cleaned up the code to make it look neat and nice. After our 2 meetings, we finally finished our cursify add-ons! 
<br>
Through this project, I utilized and reinforced my web skills to write html, js, and css files. Also, I learnt the function of content-scripts in broswer extensions and how it communicates with the popup window.
<br>
If you are tired of looking at the default cursor as we do, add this <a href='https://github.com/nyu-ossd-s20/Cursify.git'>little add-ons</a> to your browser to cursify your cursor!
