---
layout: post
title: Week 7 -- Start on Our Final Project
---

This week was an absolutely new start; everything went very surprising and exciting. Not only we start our class remotely on Wednesday, but we start on our final project by exploring the gitHub. <br><br>

Monday was our "last" in-person class and we talked more about Git. Before our project evaluations, I always did changes in the `master` branch and had no idea what's the exact difference between multiple branches. Now I got it: __branches are for different features__. For example, it is helpful for a teamwork in that while one person is developing the user interface on A branch, the other one can fix an issue on branch B. And later, merging these two branches into master would not cause any conflicts. Also, generally we are not going to work in the `master`, which usually is the final product, but use the `master` to synchronize our own branches. <br><br>

As we talked about branches, merging and rebasing were introduced as well, which are two ways to integrate changes from different branches. The major difference is that merging preserves the commit history while rebasing rewrite the history to avoid merge conflicts. As a beginner who just made her first two pull requests, the [Visualization Git Tool](https://git-school.github.io/visualizing-git/) helps me a lot to track changes and commitments in different branches.<br><br>

On our first remote class on Wednesday, we were grouped to start on our final project. Basically what we did was getting familiar with our teammates with their backgrounds and interests. All of us are interested in web development, typically React.js (I'm the only one who have not used React.js before). And then we started exploring on gitHub to see any new projects related to Javascript. We found a lot of interesting projects people are processing, like [What the f\*ck JavaScript?](https://github.com/denysdovhan/wtfjs), a repo about all kinds of JS tricks. I also introduced my favored one, [Open Food Facts](), to my teammates. On its [wiki](https://en.wiki.openfoodfacts.org/Main_Page) page, Open Food Facts clearly lists the types of [contributions](https://en.wiki.openfoodfacts.org/Software_Development) they are looking for, including backend and website issues. Besides these, their database also needs some help. I feel like it is an open source project that we are able to help with, although we were little lost in its super loose file structure. So, we have not decided which project we are going to work on, but I believe we will finalize it in the next discussion.

