---
layout: post
title: Week 4 -- Open Data
---

When I walked in the classroom, I was shocked. It was about __open data__ with invited speakers - Deena Engel and Vicky Steeves. That I were very exciting about this lecture is because currently I'm taking Data Management and Analysis course (DM&A) with Joe Versoza. There were tons of material overlapped such as data file formats, methods to deal with large data sets and their pros and cons. Also, what surprised me most from both classes was that both Deena and Joe prefer using __Python__ for data analysis. Since Python is the first aka. pre-beginning language we learned for CS, I did not realize how powerful it is. When Python is extended with various APIs like numpy and pandas, programmer can easily manipulate any large data sets. <br><br>

The one and only keyword impressed me in this lecture was __"Freedom"__. It was the answer for the advantage of working with open data that both Deena and Vicky agreed on. In contrast to proprietary data, which we are not able to use freely or get updates immediately, open data provides much convenience. Isn't that the core of Open Source?<br><br>

Deena and Vicky also told us: do not use spreadsheet to deal with data. It sounds so unbelievable when Excel and Google Sheet are so popular and convenient. Just before the lecture, however, I found a weird difference between the results from excel calculation and numpy's. I was working on my assignment for DM&A - parsing data from csv and describe it. The variance and standard deviation was different. Deena solved my confusion: in the spreadsheet, because it is not open data, we don't know how does it treat the data. Maybe it loses precision or maybe not. But, in numpy, __we have the full control on the data__. I believe it is another reason we prefer open data.<br><br>
