---
layout: post
title: Week 6 -- Licensing and More PEs
---

Finally I understand the difference between __licenses__ through Monday's guest speaker lecture about Licensing, Research Reproducibility and Software Preservationby given by Vicky Steeves. First, why we need license? In fact, before taking this course, I have no idea that license is so important that without it, we cannot create a "valid" repository (this experience is from our first project about extension where at the beginnig we could not write anything into our repository because of a lack of license). Under the law of U.S., if there is no license, by default, it means that the author chooses all rights reserved, which means others can __only look__ at it, basically a non-open-source project. Thus, in order to have an open source project with different purposes, license provides the rules for contributors to follow.<br><br>

There are 3 categories of license. <br>
1. Permissive: people have the freedom to do anythings such as preserving the code (e.g. MIT)
2. Copyleft: it requires all modified and extended versions of the original to be open source as well, following the original rules and no restrictions the after can be added
3. Ethical Source: an attempt to add more licenses terms on top of copyleft license to stop the code used by evil users, also to prohibit the program being used by people who engage in behaviors that violates social ethic rules.

In general, if we don't want to specify a license of an open source project, using permissive license, like MIT, would be fine. If one wants to know more about licenses, [choose a license](https://choosealicense.com/) will help.<br><br>

The major thing we did this week was deeper project evaluations onto various open source projects such as Gatsby and OpenFoodFacts. The first project I evaluated is [Gatsby.js](https://www.gatsbyjs.org/), a free and open source JavaScript framework based on React to build blazing fast websites and apps. It was impressive to see how big the project is and how active people involve in. Unfortunately, I barely know React.js; thus, from my standpoint, it is hard for me find a spot to contribute in. My second project evaluation is on [Open Food Facts](https://world.openfoodfacts.org/), a food products database made by everyone, for everyone. It allows user to scan a food barcode and returns back nutrition facts and more back. Before this evaluation, I tried to use its API to scrap data; however, with each request it returns a totally different JSON file back that contains inconsistent objects and object names. Also, the database is a little bit messed up, containing a lot invalid objects (food item). Therefore, I believe there are a lot of stuff should be fix up and maybe we can contribute in. For example, cleaning the database (MongoDB). I'm interested in this kind of project because it relates to __food and nutrition__ which would be my major in graduate school; also I'm taking data analysis and management course and have a little background with database. So, __I'm open to any projects involved in food and nutrition__, but so far Open Food Facts is the only open source project I have known. Besides data analysis, I'm proficient in python and have web app development (Node.js) experience; therefore, [Sugar Lab](https://sugarlabs.org/) appeals to me as well.
