---
layout: post
title: Week 9 -- Contribution Conituning
---

We keep our contributions to p5.js-website and made many progress, I would say. Julius added a subscription feature of mailing list and Matthew raised an issue. I and 🐣 (Sijia) started to contribute p5.js simplied Chinesee website by translating p5.js examples. Our plan is to translate at least 1 topic section (5+ examples) per week. Meanwhile, we add inline documentation as needed. This week I translated 05_Image, and 🐣 did 06_Color.<br><br>

Then, there is very shocking thing happened in our [translation PR](https://github.com/processing/p5.js-website/pull/648): __40 conversations__ back and forth. It is probrably the most responsive and active PR I ever see so far. The majority are about formatting quirks and a few is the word choice precision we are going to follow next time. The responsiveness of p5.js impresses me deeply. It also makes me feel that I and our contribution were attached a great importance by the community. We are so proud to witness [our work](https://p5js.org/zh-Hans/examples/) being posted on their official website 😭.<br><br>

Our contribution in translation of p5.js examples, at the same time, teaches me a lot about p5.js, not only in how to use  p5.js to sketch very artful thing such as [Pointillism (a super cool p5.js code you don't wanna miss)](https://p5js.org/zh-Hans/examples/image-pointillism.html), but also in the programming language in Chinese. Since I'm used to learning and writing code in English, I barely know the terminology in Chinese. It is also a great chance preparing me to work back China.
