
---
layout: post
title: Week 5 -- Project Evaluation & Open Source at Bloomberg
---

On Monday, we splitted into groups and evaluated several open source projects such as OpenEMR, Inkscape, and Jupyter (the one we did). All beginners (not innovators) start from copying (in a good way), which is an excellent way to become master quickly; thus, as a beginner in open source development, we start to understand the characteristics of a good open source project by project evaluations (PE). For example, to promote others' contributions into the project, we need a nice and clear documentations (this is also learnt from our first project - cursify) not only on the contribution part, but in the actual code. In this way, it is easier for others to understand the code and find the problem. A neat contribbuting guidelines also helps a lot. The second attribute we found through checking issues on [Jupyter](https://github.com/jupyter/notebook/issues). It is quite shocking at first how many issues are there, but the more impressive is that how quickly they get fixed. In this case, categorical tags for issues are crucial. If each issue is tagged, it is faster for people to check whether some one already tackled with that issue or they can issue a new bug. In fact, these two characteristics in good open source projects are both served for a better collaboration exprience for other people, to make others understand the rules, code, and more info about the project faster, and in result to better contribute to it. Hardworking in spring but gaining a lot in fall. <br><br>

Nonetheless, we also confused at Jupyter Governance at first. Without doubt, such a large open soure project needs a lot of "paperworks" to extent possible under law. But to really understand the rules specified in main governance documents or other license files for the project is quite challenging. The reason is that the [governance](https://github.com/jupyter/governance) repository itself using CC0 license, but in other repositories, they use Modified BSD License. I'm still shaky about the differences in licenses and how to choose the correct license for project. But this is a good start to discriminate CC0 and BSD licenses in Jupyter first.<br><br>

Kevin P. Fleming, from Bloomberg's CTO office, gave us a talk on Wednesday. I have to say that the talk is super impressive because it provided a macro-view about open source - the synergies of various open source projects in a hierarchy. For instance, where to deploy the project, store the data, run and get data (select the platform), use computer resources flexibly, choose machine learning models and quant computing methods and so on. None of any is a small piece of puzzle. In order to enable Bloomberg to involve in various industries such as media and finance, all these components have to integral to result in current Bloomberg. From the other side, for the purpose to become more comprehensive and capable, open source projects are the essentials.<br><br>

According to day's news, "First case of coronavirus confirmed in Manhattan" and "Second cornoavirus death reported in the U.S.", I updated Timeline of March and State section on wikipedia page about "(COVID-19 ourbreak in the U.S.)[https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/2019%E5%86%A0%E7%8B%80%E7%97%85%E6%AF%92%E7%97%85%E7%BE%8E%E5%9C%8B%E7%96%AB%E6%83%85
]". <br><br>
